Our system is comprised of many packages like internet browsers, text editors, etc. These packages are managed by "**package managers**", which install and maintain the software on the system.
> Don't always need package managers to install all packages. Some can be directly installed using the source code.

The most common variety of packages are Debian \(.deb\) and Red Hat \(.rbm\). Debian style packages are for distributions like Debian, LinuxMint, Ubuntu, etc while Red Hat style packages are seen in Linux, CentOS, Fedora, etc.

Packages technically are just lots and lots of files compiled into one unit. The developers who develop the software, compile them and document how to use them are called "upstream providers". When the newer or updated packages are ready to be released, they are sent to "package maintainers" who handle getting the software into user hands. The package maintainers review, manage and distribute the software as packages.

While we can install each and every package that we need in the system, the task can be tedious. So there's "**package repositories**" which are a central storage location of packages. All these repositories can be found on internet. The machine needs to be told where to look for repositories. For example, let's say we want WackyWidgets Software on the system. Well WackyWidgets manages their own repositories for their widget packages, inside this repository are 10 packages, the CoolWidget package, the SuperWidget package, etc. WackyWidgets hosts this repository at a source link called: http://download.widgets/linux/deb/ . Now instead of going to their website to download the package directly, we can tell the system to find WackyWidgets software from the source link. Our distribution already comes with pre-approved sources to get packages from and this is how it installs all the base packages in our system. On a Debian system, this sources file is the /etc/apt/sources.list file. The system will check that location for any source repositories that we add.

